I. Introduction 

Sastragraph stands for SAS's traffic grapher.
It also produces text files with traffic statistics.
I have other accounting package called sasacct. The idea for creating 
sastragraph was to account also  the clients on my cisco router and to 
have information about the traffic that goes in and out per interface.
Just make your logdir and graphdir to point to the directory where
sasacct stores it's files (usualy /var/sasacct) and you can use the 
same cgi interface to see the traffic and to produce the graphics.

II. Installation.
You need Net::SNMP module available at CPAN.
http://search.span.org

Use tool like snmpwalk to see the numbers of the interfaces that you have.

bash#snmpwalk 195.34.109.1 public interfaces.ifTable.IfEntry.IfDescr  

The output shows you Description of the interfaces (Ethernet, ISDN etc.) 
and the corresponding number(the last digit of every line of output). 
You'll need this number to tell sastragraph which interface you want to monitor.
If you specify interfacetype to be descriptions you will enter the descriptions
instead of interface numbers. 
Edit your sastragraph.conf and add your info there.(examples provided).
Place sastragraph.conf in /etc/ , or edit sastragraph and change the
path  to your config to some other place.
You must  enable snmp agent on the remote router in order to use this 
program,and you also must know the community name. Ask your network administrator
for this information if you don't have it, or you are not the person with permissions
to access those routers/switches that you want to monitor.
Start it every 5 minutes from crontab.

III. Some important notes about traffic logging.
Logging is done through the following decision making
scheme.
When you run sastragraph for the first time
it will query your configured routers and 
will produce the 'last' file, which contains the data
about last known traffic (via SNMP) for the interface.
On the second run sastragraph will get the new values which I will name CURRENT and compare
them  to the last known. The data that comes from the last 
file will be called LAST, the data which goes to the logfile with the traffic will be
referred to as NEW. So finally CURRENT goes to last,  NEW goes for 
updating the rrd files and the logfile.
1. If CURRENT > LAST then NEW = CURRENT - LAST
2. If CURRENT < LAST then NEW = CURRENT (you loose some traffic, this happens
   in case of counter overflow or restart,usually max for 4.59 min)
3. If not reachable it will return -1. In that case it will log zeros to rrd file  and nothing to logfile and lastfile. 
4. If the creation time of the last file is 900 seconds before now consider that we query the host for the first time.
   You can loose some traffic. Usualy the time that your accounting machine was down (due to a power failure, network was down   broken hardware or whatever) + 4.59 min. Note this when you set up your computer clock. Maybe you'll have to change the modification time of your last file 

IV. Bugs
Report them or any
suggestion via email  sasvirco@homemail.com
